Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that's wondering what we're going to do with these piles of rusks and nappies we got in.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James, and I'm at least 10 yards of lurid lycra lame wrapped around the ostensible threat that is our jewels for this episode and his front combing.
I don't think she means as well.
So we're watching what we're going to call for the sake of argument series one episode seven, Alpha Child, which stars, as you've just heard, Julian Glover as our special guest this week.
I just want to very quickly go around the panel before we begin and see if anyone has any opening statement.
I wanna keep my powder dry.
That's what Julian said.
My baby powder.
I remember this as being very odd at the time.
It just stood out, but again, we weren't much bigger than young Damien in this episode.
Not just at the time, Richard.
Still weird now.
Yeah, I have pros and cons.
But also campus tits.
Yes.
There is that.
This is one of the ones that I remember quite well.
Yes, but I'm not super convinced by this one going in.
But let's watch it and see what we think.
That's what kid Hyman said.
Sorry, Sue Crawford.
She so did.
Actor is Sid.
All right.
So, as usual, we have a keyword, and I will be saying that keyword in a moment, that keyword is bitty.
I thought Oedipus was just a little bit too obvious.
And so the next...
That's it.
Are we on on the beach or the tea?
Yeah, at the end.
So the next time I say that word, I want the people at home and who has it?
Richard, do you have the remote?
I do know.
I have my com lock poised.
Okay, Bradley at rest against the llama.
In that case, I'm going to say the word bitty.
You can't have Bitty now.
You can have pity later.
And we're off.
Isn't it gorgeous?
Oh, and again, it's bloody Midori Tuesday.
It really is.
Everything's very green.
In fact, later on someone's going to shout the words red alert and literally nothing will fucking happen.
I'd say they're already a few sheets of Picardi to the wind.
I don't understand why Tanya's refusing.
I don't understand why Sandra is giving Tanya a cup of coffee and then Tanya's refusing it.
Well, well, Sandra's been stirring it and Tanya's annoyed.
So Sandra for some reason is like, well, fine, you have it then. a backstory.
They're so bored with each other.
Babs is telling them how a home bleaching kid is going.
She is literally covered in glad rabbits, is she?
It was a very messrally doing her own home perm.
Okay, messy birth.
I thought it was dying.
I thought she was doing her own...
Oh, she does that every day.
Just waiting for one of the Werin to explode out to one of those panels at the day.
Still an early episode.
So this was shot as SP10 and shown around the same time.
I always thought this was a very early one, but that's because it was one of the very 1st scripts when they were in a big rush.
So everyone said, has anyone ever heard of that John Wyndham?
No good.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, but, but the omen was what, 1973. 1975 as well.
That's what I thought around the same time.
So this actually pre-dates Omen, and it's got some really heavy overtones.
We didn't see it till that year, so everyone, I remember at school talking about it being as the only one.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I mean, I think that this cliffhanger is pretty damn amazing and pretty brilliant.
Yeah, yeah, the one leading into the opening credits.
How'd you get off the dust?
So striking.
Yeah, so we will talk about how she gets up the Duff because that is a thing, isn't it?
Well, she's Jack Crawford's widow.
Yeah, but we don't know who Jack Crawford is at this point.
Yes.
A green thing is coming.
Barbara's got a facial expression happening there.
So she's quite happy.
And then the scream, which is just tremendous.
And then this shot of the naked five-year-old, like...
It was the 70s.
The child is fabulously horrible and offputting.
Awful. horrifying, terrifying.
Obviously English.
Yeah, yeah, really horrible in the English way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Pasty.
Yeah, posh parents.
Terrifyingly, met Dr. Mengele's blue eyes.
You're lucky he doesn't smile.
No, he does at one point.
No, he does.
Knowing little I come I went to a nice school.
Not with the teeth.
But they stay on.
They seem to stay on Midori alert.
Oh, no, no, that's not true.
They go to Chartreuse salute.
Well, I believe in production order.
This is the 1st one that had the green behind them.
Ah, I believe that's true.
But yes, young Wayne Brooks is the child throughout most of this.
And he's very good.
He's very good.
How old is he?
He's 6.5 .
Okay, disturbing.
And he did, um, you know, like, grew up to be a major mover in the in the party of choice.
Well, like a lot of child actors, he didn't have an acting career as an adult, but he was acting into the early 80s.
So he did have a long career for a child actor.
You know, no Bonnie Langford, but...
Yeah, that's right.
So few of us are.
We've got a sterling cast.
Now, Chris Penfold gets the story credit, but he really didn't have much to do with it.
He tidied it up.
It's a Jerry Anderson script.
Because it's one of the very, very early ones. an early idea.
But yeah, but it was actually written by Edward DeLorenzo, who's done some very interesting things, I'll get to later, but it's definitely based on 1957's Midwich Cuckoos, which again was a hit film in 1960, and weirdly in 1995.
Oh, okay, so.
Yeah, so it's called Voyage of the Damned as a film.
Yeah, the village of the damned.
Village of the damage.
Voyage of the Dam is also, is also the...
There was a recent...
Oh, was there another one?
of that with Keely Hawes in the lead.
Okay, in the last few years.
Well, we've all been Keeley in our past.
And we're on Blue Curasayo alert.
Yes, yeah.
But I do love...
Yeah, look, this kid is amazing for 6.5 . really getting how to.
He actually manages to be slightly more terrifying than Martin Lander.
Yeah, than Martin Landau smiling.
Like, I can't imagine not running, screaming from the room if he was to smile at me like that.
I know.
I absolutely know that.
Honestly, everyone involved was watching this in 1975 and saying if I ever make a film about Bella Legosi, I know.
Because it's perfect.
Actually, I actually think I think Barbara is absolutely nailing it here, don't you?
Like, like, we don't really need Barbara to tell us that this is medically impossible because it's sort of a stupid science fiction show, but I'm glad that she acknowledges it, you know, like it's, he's not being nourished.
How is it happening?
You know?
Well, it's, it's, it's funny we should talk about the, the father earlier and they're just about to talk about the father here.
In the original conception of the story, this was going to be a sequel to Force of Life.
And his father was going to be in McShane's character in that hence, they're worried.
That's why they're worried about the birth people.
I did wonder.
And that's why we also turn up here with rule of fricking lens.
Yeah, look, ruler.
Guess what?
doesn't get a credit. doesn't get a credit and yet, do you know what she was doing at the time?
Helping her partner, Dennis Waterman, write the team tune.
Well, work on the script and write the theme tune.
She actually do. isn't she gorgeous?
Well, look, I reckon I reckon they've dropped at least 10,000 bucks on her hair.
Yeah, what do you reckon?
She was just about to do rock follies.
Yeah, yeah.
The one that Verity Lambert is still known for in history in the town for nicking it from another woman and calling it her own, but that much like this podcast.
She's gorged.
Oh, there's Tanya saying, yeah, I think Tanya's just over hosty duties now.
You should get your own fricking coffee. for Carl.
Yeah.
They did have to write off ruler's wig on the production budget because it mysteriously ended up in Sylvia's cupboard.
Really?
No.
Because Sylvia did have a passion.
Exactly.
She looks fantastic, doesn't she?
That's a great movie. moment.
She's gorgeous.
For legal reasons, I must say that Sylvia Anderson did not purloin the rule of Lenska's wig.
I like to think that rule that's his character and this is called Lintilla.
Yes, yeah, me too.
Yeah, yeah.
She's called Joan.
Joan Conway.
Chang.
Oh, and there's your there's our Bob.
Yeah, Bob, Bob.
Bob, Bob.
So this one, Bob goes through it this week.
Sorry, he does.
He has a bad time.
They're giving the children the child.
I mean, why is no one terrified of this homunculus?
Well, Martin Landau is.
Like, no, Martin, and his feet are already 2 sizes larger than the rest of his board.
They're stunt feet.
But of course, time dilations, because that's what they've been talking about in the back scripts, the moon has passed through many and is still proceeding at a pace that oughtn't be possible.
Yeah.
And we kind of find out about that later on when we meet Margaret Layton and her enormous theoretical muff.
Which it was called in the script Bible, the mysterious unknown force.
And you can all clean up the potty minds right now.
But, but, I mean, one of the things, like, I just love how weird the Space 1999 universe is and how hostile and empty and off putting it is.
And so here, you know, we get an alien race that we just learn nothing at all about.
Like, and they're just a sort of strange, you know, upsetting metaphysical threat.
You know, it'll be squabbling rubber next year, but this year, it's just so weird and so sort of terrifyingly off putting.
And so that's what they're going with here with this sort of horrible child.
Horrific child.
Yes.
So Jack Crawford.
So we're assuming that Jack Crawford is like Ian McShane's character or that's what would have happened. analogue.
Yes, that was that was the original conception.
And then, of course, someone said, no, we don't do continuity between episodes unless we want to kill off Roy DeTrice.
Yeah, that's a rule.
But it would mean that of course, you know, like a blue flashing light came and killed his dad and then a green flashing light came and sort of turned him into Julian Glover.
You know, it would have been a payoff.
Yeah, yeah, of sorts.
But in a way, you know, it's better to have both things as more mysterious than tie them together, I think.
Yeah, well, because there was the idea that Ian McShane was becoming a star, like it was the birth of a star as in real life. as in real life.
He went on to do Game of Thrones.
Wearing like a mini version of my...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so they make a joke about him being a commander and stuff like that, which I think is terribly cute.
It's amazing that he doesn't get brained on the concept.
Oh, my God.
Nick Tate is like the worst fucking uncle ever. the most Australian thing you've ever seen.
That's right.
That used to get...
My horrible uncles did that to me.
It was done to me and they regretted it.
It's very triggering.
I was very damp and it wasn't just the face.
They're all dead now.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a nasty bruise on the princess is fantastic.
Look, 0 my god, it's so 1973.
Yeah, yeah. got a bit of a chalky thing happening there.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's a lot of Windham happening here.
When are you doing the chocky podcast?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, look, he's doing some acting.
Well done.
Oh, look.
Look at those teeth.
Lana.
He's got like, you know, Tim Burton as a boy loved this show.
Yeah, yeah.
So he casts...
I think he was watching this going, hmm, those teeth.
Also, that arse, and we see far too much of landlord.
I don't know.
That's not going to be the only thing that we're looking at.
Silvia complained about that a lot.
I think she said he's more like his armchair than he was a leaving man.
If you look at the fluffy armchair.
That was good timing.
British teeth for an American actor Well, it's the 70s.
Exactly, as we said. all you have to do is, you know, dress the part.
You can actually look like anything you want.
So we have this sort of weird thing where he just looks at controls and stuff and kind of freaks out.
Like, I don't know what this is.
This machine which has 6 buttons labelled one.
Oh it generates the ABC logo.
Oh, okay.
Yes, that's what I was thinking.
But then later on, he's going to look over at like whatever the fuck those buttons are, haphazardly glued off.
TikTok.
They're really terrible.
Did you do that at home with little white Lego tiles?
I did.
I always wanted one of these keyboards like they had here with no figures, no things on them that I could just production office, another... 7 years to actually get into a console.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, absolutely wanted that.
Seven.
How about try 10.
Yeah, I know.
It's all just too much, is it?
I love how the like, you know, it's set up quite early on that the kid does not like him.
Yeah.
Everybody else kind of falls for the kid, but the kid's like, you see through me.
Yeah, I don't think they're properly playing that, though.
I think Lando doesn't really properly, we don't really properly realise that until later on when he comes out and says it, and it would be nice if he was showing a little bit more discomfort initially, like if the 2 of them were a little bit more.
No, he's all right now, he's with Uncle Touch, Touch.
I could possibly go.
This is weird.
Well, it was the 70s.
I remember the last scene.
We've always seen light entertainment presenters from the 19777 toilet.
Yeah, we really have.
Also, that's not fair to Barry Morse.
He's actually the most fun thing in the room again.
Yeah, no, he's really great.
Look how angry the child is.
So the child's looking over at some more machines.
Oh, that's the throm-throm machine.
Is that the Thromthrom machine that he's looking at in his opening from that he that he's fondling in the opening credits?
Yeah, yeah.
I think the kid sells his dislike and his evilness much more than mutton.
How do you get a 6.5 year old to be this key?
Oh, threats.
The threats.
You cannot have any chocolate today.
They have massive whips.
James already mentioned the brain of Morbius head thing, and if you don't behave, you'll be working for the BBC.
And so his ruler again?
Rule is gorgeous.
And I think we have a bit of a Chekhov's gun that remains on fire here because he's very, very interested in like the reactor control area.
No, and then we don't come back here.
No, but he's looking he's looking angry at control.
So this is the 3rd scene in a row where he looks at banks of controls and looks angry.
And then later on we discover that Julian Glover knows all about how the thing works.
But yes, it does look like he's going to do something with the radiation thing.
And that radiation thing does remind you, doesn't it, of force of life.
Yes, yeah.
So yeah, it's probably like a leftover in the script.
Barry Morse is actually someone we won't see much of in this episode.
He asked for a bit of time off and so he...
They gave him an entire season.
But he has only 3 scenes in this episode and they are all in his quarters.
But because he's Barry Morse, I didn't notice that until afterwards when I was researching it.
And it's like, yeah, Barry asked for a bit of a break after 9 episodes.
Yeah, okay.
He had to have his clockwork heart kind of tended to.
She totally rejected it, the child. we're keeping her under sedation, the bitch.
Yes. until she decides to be a proper mother.
Yeah, yeah, no, it wasn't like, she refuses to accept the child.
Yeah, so this is where we get Martin Landau say that he's sort of creeped out by him, despite all those giant shark teeth.
And stupid Barry Morse doesn't notice that this is much, much more impressive than any five-year-old would be able to do.
Well, well, he's actually only what, a few days old?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, yes, there's that.
But it's kind of like, look, I drew this flower and he kind of goes, oh, yeah, that's all right.
Yeah, that's very good.
I'll put it on the freeze.
Oh, yeah, I'm in science.
Don't do it.
That's right.
Maybe that's it.
Off you go.
No, he does notice it's good, but also, yeah, he's sort of under kind of spooked by it.
Yeah, look, he just puts it on the fridge.
But also, it's a space baby. in 2001, so we just know.
Oh, don't smile, you horrible child.
Oh, there's that face again.
I know I'd be chucking that across the room as well.
Beep.
Yeah, same to you, mate.
Oh, God, you just want all the things, don't you?
I want the love.
Well, I want that.
We wanted that.
Didn't we want the com locks?
I still want it.
Yeah, look at those teeth.
He looks like ARI.
Doesn't he?
Yes.
He does.
Lots and lots of fibreglass and 0 no, here we are. lovely.
Yeah, so what's this?
It's a sort of orange alert.
What are you doing?
Mood lighting.
Yeah, the Angus Stewart bitters and a little bit of almanack.
Oh, but of course it's Victor's quarters.
So it's always that sunset orange toga party effect.
Exactly right.
It just opens a secret panel and says it's always after midday, somewhere, John.
People in the world who have decorated their homes.
Well, there's 2 that I know of.
And one was really, very successfully.
You've sent you the pics years ago in this look.
Oh, you would, wouldn't you?
You know that that was?
I should have realised this living with my husband, but when our kitchen was all sort of white, gleaming walls and white surfaces and stuff, I thought, this is perfect, this is exactly what I wanted.
Now, of course, you know, they're just covered in physical objects, spatial objects.
Womp, womp.
Yeah, I'm still trying to figure out how he's managed to turn the air fryer into a storage space.
Yeah, everything is a storage space.
Speaking of, well, it's a scarab beetle, actually.
So this spaceship.
Yeah.
And again, the great thing that Space 1999 does is just make these aliens completely unknowable.
Like we just can't even, and there is some weirdness about how we behave around them.
It's kind of like we do get a moment where Koenig says, well, we don't, you know, shoot people.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, we don't shoot people. you know, when we're investigating people you don't want to shoot them, so they probably don't want to shoot us.
A bit of a vault face from...
But then suddenly it's, yeah, yeah.
But then suddenly it's no, no, Alan, just go around the back and shoot them from behind.
Yeah, do it from behind because that's right.
This is it for the fanboys at home who liked getting out the bits and bobs.
This is Ian Scoon's, Aryan Scoon.
Very 1st spaceship that he made for Space 1979.
Wow.
And he made it out of bits of wood and then other bits of wood curved over and bits of plastic.
Now, it looks like he's broken up a couple of Thunderbirds and... not quite.
There's a 5 foot one and just a little few inches one when he puts them all together.
And the back of it is wedding cake stands.
And the front of it's a revel, bit of a revel model of a Sawyer's probe, but that's the, it's meant to be the um, the disbursement nozzle mechanic bong bit.
But they are meant to look like scarab beetles.
I think that's really quite clever.
You know what this reminded me of.
Invasion of time.
Same guy.
Yeah, it's a similar kind of shape.
So the answer to this is don't let hand spoons into your laundry cup because you'll nick shit, you'll never be able to do floors again.
That's right.
Why does the dry not work?
Am I right in thinking built by Ian Scoons, but am designed by Martin Bauer?
Apparently it's all Ian.
Oh, okay, right.
Because I know Mountain Bower works on the series at some point as well.
He did, but no, they were very individual special boys.
And Ian was on 1st because he'd already worked with the Andersons.
Because, um, they, he made, um, Ian made 2 of these models, I think, and one was...
Yes, one's 5 foot and the other one's just a few inches long.
So you got those distant shots in the same.
And then we get the other spaceship that comes along later that just looks like it's straight out of, you know, 2001.
Because it actually is.
Well, it's a model Jupiter 2 or whatever.
Adjusted.
It's, yeah.
Yes.
But the radar dish on it is from a US's enterprise model kit. like is literally the source section.
Okay, right, right.
But there's no attempt to bite me.
It is Martin Bell.
I just keep thinking it's Ian Scones because Ian was on it from the word go.
I apologise to everybody at home.
This is Martin.
Hello, Martin, if you're still with us.
This is Martin Bell's 1st model.
Okay, wonderful.
So I apologise because I was just thinking of Ian because and Martin does also do. invasion of time, doesn't he?
Yes, yes, I do.
Yeah, because it's the same thing.
So yes, he did too.
One's 30 inches long.
Who's greedy?
And the other ones and the other one's 5 foot.
And yes, they're hardboard and they're bent over and preformed and stuffed with car filler.
So that sounds like a big weekend.
They do look like the spaceship from the front cover of a Hugo Award winning novel. from the 1970s, don't they?
They do indeed.
Now, the pursuit ship, of course, is modelled, more modified from a pre-existing model that was based on Discovery one.
Yeah, it was over 5 foot, but that was actually built for which story was it?
Oh, this one.
But it was, it was, of course, remodelled for Wargames.
You remember it in Wargans?
And in the last enemy when they spray it bronze, and it's also in Dragon's domain, which is very exciting. next week. next episode.
Yeah, yeah.
They shoved that forward, that Christmas.
Yeah, yeah, the Christmas.
All the crew members get eaten by a drawer full of tinsel.
Which is actually terrible.
The best description for this episode and the inimical leads that come in later on.
But you're right.
We'll get to that later, but this doesn't just touch on midwich cuckoos, does it?
There's quite a bit of your actual Greek drama.
Well, kissy-kissy mumsy.
I just yeah, yeah, that's right.
Yeah, like I don't quite know what's going on there. because you're a nice boy.
Is it?
Yes, it is.
Yes, but is it trying to make them evil because they're kind of horrible?
Greek.
So, so, Star Trek, Star Trek. it was a thing, wasn't it?
It was a Hollywood thing that like making people wear togas and look Greek, you know, who mourns for Adonise, where it's Apollo, isn't it, and stuff like that, where or Plato's stepchildren.
You know, the idea that aliens and advanced aliens are like ancient Greek civilisation or here, there's sort of ancient Greek stuff coming and there's sort of Egyptian stuff, like trying to make it look ancient.
But they don't sort of go anywhere with it.
It's just an aesthetic.
It is very strange.
Yeah, now now Helena's turned on the kid.
Oh, it's because the, it's because the kids smile.
The kid came in and saw the mother losing her shit and smile.
Well, I mean, you know.
Yeah.
She's willing her to death.
She's not been much of a mother, to be fair.
It's a very modern take on it.
I just love that, you know, everything's vanilla beige in this episode except the Midori walls, spaceships, and the child's intent.
Mandel's eyes.
Yeah, Martin Ladow's strikingly beautiful eyes.
They do light him well.
Actually, Julian Glover's eyes get a bit of a workout later on as well.
And again, it's one of those things where the special effects are just done in camera and so it just looks incredibly impressive.
You did seem to have a career in the 70s of playing slightly mincy, dangerous blokes from other dimensions and things.
It just ended up looking like your are quite annoying boss who's come along to the costume party after designing his own little outfit.
I can't say anything.
He's just got to speak to HR about it. a role.
But yeah, but oral thing, but hasn't he done his part lovely?
Yeah, that's it.
You're going to lead the party very, very soon.
It doesn't matter which one.
Dory alert, Dory alert.
Yeah, it's literally someone says red alert and they don't turn the lights red.
I mean, seriously, it means changing the bulb.
Yeah.
She had one job.
She said, that's it.
I not even making his coffees.
We'll see her shortly, but look how hairy Alan's back is, by the way.
Awesome.
We'll see this character in a moment, but there is a character who was cut out in editing for a very good narrative reason that will become clear.
There was a nurse who was meant to be attending Jackie. we get that mentioned.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, I know who that is.
It's Paula.
That's, um, oh, Andrea Allen.
She's in UFO in a purple wig for quite a lot of it.
That's right, yes.
Um, we'll, um, we'll see you mostly after this.
Yeah, she does she does appear, but she's in it less than the dialogue suggests that she should, which is not fair.
Because, um, they realised during editing, because she had a few a few lines.
It was generally just running into a room and saying, is he in here and then running out again?
And it just made them look actually more incompetent than giving him the run of the base because they've gone, okay, he does need someone to escort him, who then is utterly shit job. there.
This is very strange too.
This is probably the best he can do.
But, you know, that's a very childlike thing.
It's then shot brilliantly as he, you know, he's just shutting down.
Yeah, yeah.
There she is with that with those wonderful side bangs.
Yeah, little ringlets. looking great.
Yeah.
And she will be with Bob later in the in the medical week.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
She will.
But her sadly, her line was cut.
Yes.
She does go onto other things quite quickly, though.
Our Andrea Allen.
Now, I love the posh guy who Nick is in the in the eagle with.
He gets a line of dialogue.
I think he's kind of weirdly hot.
Have a look.
See what you think.
Here we go, there he is.
Manual override, they're moving very fast.
Yeah.
It's the Mo.
That's the Mo.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those ships are in there.
Oh, they're missing.
Jesus, they're useless.
They're shooting blanks.
No, no, actually, doesn't Martin Landau say you were incompetent up there?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I think Alan's co-pilot looks and sounds like, you know, the navigator in a World War 2 bomber in a in a...
Oh, I say, Buffy.
You know, Alexander Armstrong.
Yeah, that's right.
Because it well over the channel, isn't it?
This is a very stately space battle, can I just say?
It is quite stately, isn't it?
I mean, they've got a lot of room.
Yeah, Nick's so bored with it, he's fallen asleep.
And then it's just very genuine.
Oh, it lies some shock absorbers.
That's pretty cool Yeah.
You see, that's why I was so worried about the child earlier, because Nick crashes fucking everything.
Yeah, yeah.
Very naughty boy.
Yes.
All right.
We had an act break.
Now, we've got these spaceships that we can't shoot.
Oh, and the kids shut down.
Oh, is this where Julian starts to appear?
Are we getting Julia now, finally?
And Barbara is watching 1960s Doctor Who on it.
That's it, the title sequence.
I can't make head nor tail of these Dalek readings, John.
That shot we just had of the 4 ships, which we will see again.
The one in the foreground was the larger one.
And then the ones in the background were the smaller model shot 3 times.
Right, okay.
Because you could do that with this kind of optical model photography.
Yeah, okay I love the lighting in this scene, I have to say.
Well, it kind of goes back to breakaway with the men lying in there with...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think I would feel kind of, I would quite like to, I don't know, spend some time on drugs in a bed in that blue room.
Do you know what I mean?
Just relaxing.
When I was young, I thought of a thing called the Petadine Travel Agency where...
You can't afford to go on holidays, right?
But you need to relax.
Was that terrible?
I used to fantasise about that all the time.
Yeah, no, it's working.
I think the young ones did that in a sketch with Patrick Newell.
You called this a holiday?
Two weeks on a mattress on a cellar under a light bulb?
Oh my god, that was mother.
That was mother.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In the period shortly before he died where he lost all the weight and people stopped hiring him.
So he started putting it back on again and then killed him.
Brilliant Yeah, all right.
You are mutually incompetent.
Yes, Nick, you loser.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah, that's brutal.
That's brutal management style.
But, you know, he does give a very modern takeoff.
Yes, you're not you're not incompetent innately, but out there in this moment.
You were.
Yeah, and it's Jackie Crawford.
Yeah, well, Jackie Crawford's probably taking revenge for being thrown around the main mission at Victor's spa lounge.
And Victor's...
Sorry, his floral tributes.
I will say, it's a testament to the writing that you don't realise how little Victor is in this.
Yeah.
Like, so, you know, the scientific dialogue they give to other people.
And I think possibly it goes to Carno, who give us some reports from computer later on.
Yeah, yeah, it still fits.
Yeah.
You know, it's not like those few episodes of Voyager where Roxanne Biggs Dawson wasn't available, so they get in a guy, they're going to kill in a few episodes, just as a convenient thing to go, hey, hey, we can actually pretend he was here all along.
Raphael Sabaj.
Yes.
So, yes.
Quiet.
All right, here we go, here we go.
Here we go.
We're getting Julian.
Oh, look at Barbara's eyes just wide and imperceptible. certain sacerations under the black curse.
She may be a little startled.
So do you think, do you think they would have got Victor?
Like, it's kind of like, we've got to send 4 people out with big guns to fire at the at the spaceships?
And they all go, oh, well, there's 4 of us in this room.
It must be us.
Because there's no one else on the fucking base.
Do you know what I mean?
They didn't get...
I'll give Tanya a gun after what they did.
Christmas party.
I'm sorry, you didn't run fast enough.
Yeah, that's right, but do you think it would have been Victor?
Oh, I would have been in this scene instead of Bob.
Bob is so beautiful.
Look at it.
Bob.
And the reveal.
Wait for it.
Jazzy's own costume and backup.
Where's the pendant come from?
That's an old time going.
Where's the fucking pendant?
It's the 70s.
We know better than to ask.
I have to say the combination of this look and this week just makes me think of Jonathan Harris.
I don't think it's a wig I think it is like they've plastered his hair.
That's 100% Julian.
Now, I want you to look at the bottom of the costume because that's the only place I'm going to be looking for the rest of the episode because he's he's he's all there.
It's all Julian.
Little Julian is very clearly on display.
Julian all the time.
You know who was married to at the time?
Who, who?
Only terrarium, fancier, extraordinary Isla Blair.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
So she said, yeah, I've been in this final.
You have a go as well.
I think you can see her nipples from here.
Oh, Bob.
All I just, all I get from this thing is, if I were to ask your fellow guardian the question, which would he indicate?
I actually quite like how he's still learning to talk.
Yes.
Like, he, you know, he does become Julian Glover and camp it up sort of horribly, but he's still kind of learning.
Yeah.
Now, I think it's fair to say that this is the least bald shaming podcast in the world.
Yes.
They should have given Julian a nice wig like he gets in Doctor Who.
I actually quite like this.
I like the horses.
Look at the eyes.
Look.
And it's just like we're not relying on a special effect we're just relying on this dickhead from...
Look at his bum.
But he played a lot of tennis.
Yeah, no, no, no.
Here, hear, hear.
Turn around.
Look, moose knuckle.
So I'm checking out from here on here.
I'll just be looking at Julian's crotch from now.
Hello, to listener.
Welcome back to Moose Knuckle.
Three days old.
This is where this is where Babs does it beautifully.
I mean, she really does play this nice. looking at his boost knuckle.
Yeah, she really is.
But I mean, look at this.
It's all done.
It's this sort of bullshit mind control thing.
There's not a single special effect here.
It is just Julian makes his eyes go big and and, you know, Barbara starts trembling and and, and look at beautiful Bob trying to do some being strangled acting, too.
I will say, and I think Barbara's performance is magnificent here.
I will say her thumbs are visibly off Bob's neck.
That's one hell of a pain too.
And now I'm just going to lower myself gently to the ground.
She's like, I just want to be eye level with this particular part of Julian's confuse.
No reason.
That's it.
Do you think she sunk to the floor so that she can get a good, good look at the moose knuckle?
No reason, Martin.
You go outside and play with your Super Nintendo Super Scope.
This is why their marriage ended.
I love the guns.
I have to say.
Do we ever see those guns in the base?
I thought they were from UFO.
Oh, I could be wrong.
We do see them in the backgrounds of several shots.
Okay.
But I believe this is the 1st episode in production we see them in.
Oh, so we're going to do more strangling in a second, I think.
Bob does look quite cross doesn't he?
Yeah.
He's great.
I mean, Julian Glover.
I mean, this is a shitty story.
Am I right?
This is kind of stupid.
It's it's definitely a 50 story filmed with a 70s budget at a big 70s budget.
But at the pace of it, it is its own pace, isn't it?
But I don't think that's a harmful thing.
You're letting, this is theatre pace.
You're letting the actors do.
All of that I love.
Like, that's what I'm here for with Space 1999 series one in particular.
I just think it doesn't say anything.
It's not about anything.
And it don't trust children.
Don't trust it, which is fair enough.
I think, probably...
I'm so there.
But and it is sort of weird and upsetting in the way that Space 1999 tends to be weird and upsetting.
And once again, we meet aliens who want to kill everyone on mood-based alpha, which is pretty much how I feel most of the time.
Yeah, mostly.
I agree.
It's interesting how you say it's not about anything because I think it tries to be about something at the end.
I'll talk about that more when we get there.
Yeah, they don't land it, though.
I wonder.
And I think I know where that is.
Okay.
Yeah, Bob got forced choked a couple of scenes ago.
So he's been proper choked.
Then he's been forced choked.
Wait for it.
I love this.
This is my favourite bit where he, through the power of ESP, puts makeup on a massive makeover.
It's such a complete French and Saunders makeup.
So good.
No makeup, no makeup.
Looking at those beautiful green eyes of Julian Glover there.
No makeup.
Lovely. shot of whatever the hell that is.
But Nick kills her with the power of his mind.
Does her does her her funeral makeup.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. brings her back to life.
Green light.
Look, we've got green lighting camera.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, green light on her.
All you need to do.
It's so good isn't it?
Yeah.
So now.
Now she's done her eyeline and brow grooming.
I mean, it's impressive brow grooming.
It's so awesome.
Where do I get that flashlight?
Adam Richards?
Where do I go?
Look at her.
And he's done her hair.
And she must be so proud to have a gay son like him.
Lots, lots and lots of...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, like in that season of only murders in the building.
Which I never got.
Oh, look, sorry, I can't hear you over Julian's moose knuckle.
Also, what is it about this culture?
It's the 1st ones to actually where the ladies wear the trousers.
Yeah, I don't know.
Why isn't she skimpily dressed?
Yeah, ladies always dress in a couple of rubber bands and a Toblerone wrapper.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, not anymore.
And we digetically go to silhouette.
James, what is it you said in the group chat to describe that moment?
It just that upsettingly drunken family Christmas. that no one talks about.
Oh, look, we've got our Parmesans out.
It's obviously going to be a...
In fact, we know that Barbara needs business when she shoots one of the palmers.
It's like, I'm going to shoot this esky.
Yes. then I'll turn my gun on you.
Yeah, no, it's a less Oedipus Rex and more Oedipus Rex.
Oh, awesome.
That is bang.
Boys and girls, that's elf joint behind them, the one who leaps over barricade.
Oh, star persons.
John, tell everybody.
Or I'll kill Alan.
I'm not going to kill one of these non-speaking bastards.
No, she wasn't, yeah, that's right.
She's not mind controlled at this point.
She just really want to...
She just doesn't like Australians.
Screw that, Helen.
You completely bombed my Parmigiana.
That's it.
She wants to reduce the eagle crash fatality rate.
That's right are you?
I am Jarak, last of the Jaggeroth.
Sorry, what, I can't hear you.
It does feel like John Nathan Turner's dream casting to his 1st year producing Doctor Who, doesn't it?
Yeah.
Except for ugly security guy.
The guy at the back looks like Tom, that's after...
That's off-joint.
He's a proper stocky bugger and he can do everything.
There he is doing everything.
And there's Julian giving him the eye.
I was going to say Keith Barron.
No more than I am, Jack.
What do you think Jared's pendant does?
I don't know.
Apart from catch.
Look, imagine if you'd had those pile of guns when you're a kid.
Oh, yeah. one would be here.
Oh, sorry.
What?
No, I can't.
It's a nice rehearsal that mom's in.
I can see his eye of Horus.
Yeah.
I intend to go back to where my spaceship was.
Is. Okay.
From pressing the button.
Ban by question.
Why is Bob judging from the back there?
The only one in a bandoleer version of the uniform.
Oh, just wears a belt.
I don't know.
He's the only one with a Klingon support gossip.
Does he have hypo sprays that he keeps in there or something?
Well, no, I must.
No, see?
No, I must.
Yeah, he does too.
Well, that, that, that, maybe he's got scoliosis.
Oh.
That isn't Bob, because he was wearing a triple sleep.
Oh, it's a security guy.
But he's not a security guy because security guys wear movet.
No, it's there.
Look, there he is in the right-hand side of that.
It's not that guy, though.
Oh, no, the guy behind him.
There's a black guy behind him with a...
Oh, see, it's very important.
One of those things.
No, the other security guys, in this scene, I think, over to the right are wearing the battle is, this is the important information you tune in for, listener.
Yeah, yeah, there he is there.
They have an extra holster.
Yeah they do.
Well, you know what?
Joan Crawford's birthday. the idea. but you killed Joan Crawford.
No, I didn't.
I took her over and she's now my mother's sister.
My sister wife.
My mother daughter.
Auntie Mummy.
Pity.
It is very British ruling class.
Is she this fly?
Yes.
So, so I want to know what happened.
So at the end of this, we go back and disappointingly...
Oh, okay, all right.
Let's talk about that when we get All right, let's talk about that when we get there.
You know, I know I know people either aren't watching the episode or have seen it at infinite.
Yes, I remember it from when they were 5 and that's actually enough too.
Or need to put some more hot water in now, Colin.
Yes, Colin.
And maybe some Epsom salts.
Oh, yes, I need to have a bath without some salt.
Oh, there's nothing wrong with that idea.
I want one of these guns.
I've started using stratoderm on my scar, by the way.
We'll see how effective it is.
Okay.
It's a silicon scar thing.
It works quite well.
I used it on the scar a few years ago.
Yes.
Now, see, this is how I feel about Martin Lando as well.
Don't give up.
Imagine if you could do that with just by staring at people.
It's amazing, isn't it?
Oh, here he comes again.
Here's your mate, Richard.
That's all he ever does.
You just leaps off.
You shouldn't have him around.
Leaps on Martin Land.
Oh, we got the Wow.
Now, I'd like to point out this is very much not stunned.
No.
When you explode, I think it's not stunned.
Yeah, that's explodes.
Oh, it did have a thing for the Scandwegian inheritance.
You know, she does cast people with limpid blue eyes.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's quite clear in the in her main cast.
But I mean, Julian's got these amazing green eyes, doesn't he?
It's pretty great.
But he's certainly doing feisty with them, isn't he?
Oh, look, there's a bit of dick visibly.
Does it come across in the script?
It's in the original script.
I don't think it comes through that they are a race of or a leader of 120 alien travellers, I ought to say, who have escaped from rigorously imposed genetic conformity.
Yes, no, he does say that.
I'm genetically conformed, really, darling.
Okay.
But there's, you know, because they're kind of unknowably weird and we never see their physical forms that could look like anything.
I do too.
That's one of the things I like about Space 1999.
Oh, okay.
I like the spaceships. they look like they're spaceships.
Yeah.
Yes. everyone's sort of very gently choking, aren't they?
On their own, very decorously.
It's a very middle class. that sort of party.
Yeah, that's right.
That is Andre.
There she is.
Also having a bit of a choke. and that lovely nurse in the background.
Look at her. isn't she gorgeous?
She is quite gorgeous.
We're getting paid for this.
It's another one of the models, just like these, you know, the insanely beautiful people that populate Space 1999, which I'm really only noticing this run through, just how pretty everyone is.
No there's Victor doing his 3rd scene.
I thought it was genetic conformity, but looking at that costume, maybe it's fashion conformity.
No, no, genital conformist.
Ah, could be.
Genital conform.
Speaking of which, now, I did when this, when this particular scene came up, I said, oh my god, Deus X fucking Macana.
Sorry, what?
Oh, there's a ship approaching.
Sorry, I couldn't hear you.
Remember the sound of that moose knuckle slapping you in the face?
Slapping, slapping.
Yeah, it is absolutely.
Just then the spaceship turns up and kills them all.
Yeah, and I do wonder if that's the effect of not having Victor in the script.
Well, they have absolutely, they are dead.
They have no power in this situation.
They only saved by the fact that the people are pursuing these aliens get their entire.
Yeah, it's not quite, it's not quite de-sex marketer because they are runaways.
They are fugitives and people are chasing them.
And so the, 0 my god.
Sorry, buds.
Yeah, exactly.
So they go, wedding cake stands.
Actually, a point about the point about the sound effects here.
The 2001 spaceship uses the sound effect of the Sonic screwdriver.
No.
Yep, have a listen.
Who can do that?
And the Andaric ship use the, um, it's a very common computer sound for, but for Doctor Who fans, you will have heard it in the William Hartnell Tardis, and also various Dalek sets, not the womp, womp, womp, but it's sort of, um, a computer sound.
So yeah, Sonic screwdriver for this one and...
Is that that sort of wobbly wobbly salad?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hurtly Sonic.
What about this?
Where it scriggles.
Like the guys who just draw squiggles?
on the film?
which squeals like a trapped child in Victor's flower press.
Now, before we mention Julian Glover's moose knuckle again.
And we will, I just say.
I'd like to point out what he said about the costume, which is Alpha Child was totally ridiculous, but it was good fun to do.
I mean, how often do you get the chance to run around in a silver skirt?
And don't we wish it was a skirt?
Truly.
You wouldn't be complaining about the moose knuckle then.
Come on.
Or before Star Wars.
I think this looks fabulous.
It does look great.
I do love how the ship actually disappears completely just to be replaced by an explosion.
Yeah, it doesn't actually explode.
And also you can see the drapes behind the...
Sorry, what?
Wow, he's just advancing on Angela or whatever her name is with that...
Look at that.
Dick of death.
Oh my goodness.
Bandix.
Sorry, what an expansion bandage.
It's great, isn't it?
It's a front bottom.
No, I think he dresses to his dressing to the, well, I guess it's his right. from his point of view.
It is his right.
And he owns it.
His dressing to the to the seats up the back.
Bob's doing eyebrow acting gorgeously.
Do you notice how his mo and eyebrows linked at the same moment?
That beautiful moustache.
I'm glad moustaches are back.
I didn't I didn't see the appeal before now.
See, I'm a child of the 70s and I remember when toilet seat covers came with...
I don't think I remember that too.
Both are euphemism and not terrifyingly.
No, they really did.
I will say they're Bob saying one life for 300.
It's one of the most characterful moments he's given because very often he's there to sort of support Helena's medical speak and give a 2nd opinion.
She doesn't really have to get strangled again.
Yeah, she just has an inburst and then the emotion goes... mainly the... the choking out.
It's mainly there for the choking out. aren't we all?
It's like Sutex gift of vacuum cleaner.
Anyway, go on.
Sorry, Brendan.
That's right. love this.
Where Drake's going, yes, I think you might be mean to me because I was mean to Alpha's 1st brother, mother and child.
And then he just goes, you tried to kill us all.
Yeah.
That's so great. was thinking of doing a meme. with just their faces and it's like, what did they ever do to you?
You tried to kill me and destroy this planet.
Well apart from that.
Yeah, what about the makeover he did on his mom?
That made something for it to some degree.
I think mom's giving that disappointed side eye when you really didn't make it in the piano competition.
You know who else always made sure their mum looked nice?
Norman Bates.
Just say it.
But, but, yeah.
But yeah, I just meant, you know, Bob gets a heroic moment of, you know, one life for 300.
Like, it's like, kill me. to save everyone else on the base.
No-brainer.
Thanks, mate.
Right, he's already been sucked out the window that time.
Yeah, exactly.
Didn't complain.
Any port in a storm, love.
And, you know, this is why I wanted to point out that that guy absolutely, like, exploded earlier because he's like, actually, I just stunned all those people and Helena's like, that's right.
It's like, what about the other fucking one?
Yeah, 3 people are dead.
No, but to be fair, Conig did shoot that guy.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, he was upstaging him.
Happened all the time on the base.
It was an attractive Italian model.
Oh, dear.
Yeah, that spaceship looks great.
But it looks like it has nothing to do with the other spaceships.
Yeah.
I think that's, like, I kind of like that in a way.
I think just because it makes the world seem more inexplicable, you know?
But I suppose, you know, a police car doesn't look like every other car.
No.
Yeah.
Well, damn cop.
Yes, and so, oh, look, so now they're doing some really terrible dying acting.
That's not great, is it?
Quick, cut away from Julian. has been one elongated expiration party, hasn't it?
Yeah, that's right.
Breath play.
Okay.
The centuries that divide me.
I wonder how many ad breaks in this show. they said break and now there's like 90 seconds of show left after this ad. super depressing.
I, I, I do wonder how many, how many...
Now they're turning green.
This is really quite embarrassing.
I've been married 12 these years.
Womp, womp.
How many outbreaks on this show are just Martin Landau shouting someone's name at a door.
I like the idea that they may just be AI beasties in chips.
They don't actually have to have any corporeal substance.
That's right.
That's it.
They could be the future of your phone.
Well, isn't that the whole point?
They've evolved beyond physical form.
They are beings of thought.
Then why do they want form?
Well, they want to hide in our forms to escape from the people pursuing them.
And he kind of wants to have sex with his mom as well, which is hard if you're incorporeal.
Yeah.
And come to think of it, there was that episode of Star Trek, the original series with non-corporeal people wanting bodies called Return to Tomorrow, which is very good and has some Dynamo door.
Ah, it always does.
And I love this moment as well of everything Bob has been through today.
And he's broken.
You know, and it was sort of broken with happiness from this moment of the mother and child being alive.
But it's a it's a rare human moment. sensational butt flesh acting.
Yeah, but we now know what that child's going to grow up to look like.
That's right Stop feeding it at this point.
Richard the first.
Yes.
This is the moment where I'm like, I think it was trying to be about something and about the fact that, you know, you can do horrible things, but still have humanity and have compassion.
And Konik just goes, no, I don't think they have any choice.
They didn't give themselves up.
And it's like, no, we're nearly there.
You know, we're nearly at about being something.
And Conick, who is the authority for the audience says, nah, they're fucking cunts.
Yeah, yeah.
It would have been really great.
If we were kind of left with a question and that's what space 1999 normally does, it doesn't like to give explanations.
And I'm on board with that because what happens in an episode is always so stupid.
But, you know, like, but, but the, the mystery at the end of it, you know, like we were talking about Force of Life, where is it a star that has somehow come and incubated in this person and then been born?
And that's preposterous.
Like absolutely, you know, absurd, but that's kind of what you want from Space 1999.
And it would have been nice if, you know, Jarak had lived in a human body and had started to sympathise with humans in some way.
Would it also be more interesting?
And they did have time to develop that.
They did a whole lot of pause breathing acting.
Yes, that's right.
And a lot of kind of tremors and stuff like that.
Far too much of the child and not enough of Julian.
Yes, I think so too. actually think that was a nice balance.
I found the child far more threatening.
I would have liked it to be the child all the way through, but maybe the child is so good because he doesn't speak.
And if you then give him the speeches, maybe it wouldn't.
It would have been embarrassing.
But I think it just doesn't, it doesn't get to the point enough because of that.
If the child, maybe if the child had spoken.
Like, from earlier on, but had had the voice of an adult and had, you know, like developed intelligence in a really like intense, fast way.
Yeah, I think that, I mean, I think they would have struggled to have, like, realised that probably.
Like, for me, this, like this is still proper weird space 1999 is still proper, unpleasant and off-putting space 1999.
But I think it might be kind of the dumbest one that we've had so far. simple, but then Jerry wrote it.
Yeah.
Oh, we were looking at the photos.
She does really look like the new wife of your rich uncle at the wedding that nobody quite knows how to speak to and no one understands the accent, but you know she's got a backstory.
Look at the baby looking at Helena.
The makeup's been done by your other uncle who's gay and drag.
Look at Bob looking beautiful.
Yeah, gosh, Bob.
Oh, look, the child actually being nice, still terrified.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And God, managing to be terrifying in a photo with Prentice Hancock.
It's hard to hear.
But I reckon his parents have got to be pretty horrific.
Do you know what I mean?
Or just on the set.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. horrible theatre parents.
I was gorgeous in this.
You know, actually, this...
You know, he's terrifying.
Stop it.
This is a good episode and it's because of this kid.
He really makes it fly.
And he's, he scares the com locks off me.
Really does.
Yeah.
What a sweetheart.
Obviously a very bright boy.
I hope he ended up chain smoking and with an alcoholic addiction.
Really good life.
Just doing everything he wanted.
My parents ruined my life.
That it.
I did try to, I did try to. that's Ray Austin, yeah.
I did try to look him up online, but, um, depends on hips, acting time.
Julian, in the costume.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah, sorry, Brendan, what are you saying?
No, no, I was just going to say, I did try to look him up online, but there's no there's no Wayne Brooks.
I have managed to find yet of the right age. insensibly changed his name.
Gary Lincoln.
Wayne.
Cigarette.
Everyone smoked on this.
Julian's got a hairy back as well.
Look at that.
Yeah, no, there were foolscap, little sticky things everywhere.
Do not smoke on the vinyl floor.
It cost a fortune.
Yeah.
All right, what do you think?
I think maybe we're done.
Yes, I think so.
Does anyone have any closing statements?
I said it was stupid.
It had Julian Glover's moose knuckle in it.
It was stupid but I wasn't offended.
Yes, I think that might be.
And for something with eatable kissing.
That's a thing. think James found that more upsetting than most.
He's still shaking.
Like Julian in that final scene.
He's under a blanket and unable to speak.
I'm glowing green as sweet.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, maybe you should cancel that order of champagne and oysters you made for next Mother's Day.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Mornay or Kilpatrick.
Good night.
Oysters. more concerned about the bacon bits.